# Lauras Simple Template Engine

This script generates a website to ./dist out of the given template parts, the assets and the content itself. It is very simple, lightweight and its purpose is to handle very small websites.

See `/example` for a simple website template

## Usage

**Make sure you have python3 installed.**

1. Clone this repository
2. execute `./lste.py -p ./example -d ./dist` to generate a website into `./dist`

```bash
# NAME
#   Lauras Simple Template Enginge - LSTE
#
# SYNOPSIS
#   ./lste.py [--watch] [--path] [--destination]
#
# DESCRIPTION
#   This script generates a website to ./dist out of the given template
#   parts, the assets and the content itself
#
# EXAMPLE:
#   ./lste.py --path ./website-src --destination ./website
#
# OPTIONS
#   -p|--path         Sets the base directory for the website. If not setted
#                     LSTE uses the current active directory
#   -d|--destination  Sets the directory where the website is rendered to
#   -w|--watch        Automatically generates the website to ./dist
#                     if a file in /src, /assets or /parts changed
#
# LEGAL NOTE
#   Written and maintained by Laura Herzog (laura-herzog@outlook.com)
#   Permission to copy and modify is granted under the GPL license
#   Project Information: https://github.com/lauraherzog/lste/
```

Hint: You can also move the lste.py to your local bin directory to use it systemwide

## Template Development

This tutorial should help to setup a simple LSTE project:

1. Create a file `lste.conf` in an empty folder and fill it like so:
2. Create the folders `./parts`, `./src` and `./assets`
3. Place the actual pages in `./src`, like `index.html` or `about.html`
4. Use the `./assets` folder for you stylesheets, images etc.
5. Insert your template parts in the `./parts` folder

### Site Data

The basic site data is stored in the `lste.conf`. It must have following content:

```bash
[lste]
title = My LSTE Project
meta-keywords = these, are, my, keywords
meta-description = My very first LSTE project
```

These settings are the global settings and data of the project.

Each file in `./src` can overwrite this meta data by placing these optional tags in the head of the file:

```html
<!-- [title: My LSTE Project] -->
<!-- [meta-keywords: these, are, my, keywords] -->
<!-- [meta-description: My very first LSTE project] -->
```

### Template Parts

The template parts are simple HTML-files. They can be included by the pages in `./src` and by the template parts themself.

The code snippet `<!-- [part: my-template-part] -->` allocates `my-template-part.html` in the `./parts` folder and includes its content.

### Menu

LSTE is relatively stupid and looks for certain simple patterns to determine what a menu is. For example you have a template part `sidebar.html` in `./parts` which looks like this:

```html
<ul>
	<li id="home"><a href="index.html">Homepage</a></li>
	<li id="first-link"><a href="first-link.html">1st Link</a></li>
	<li id="second-link"><a href="second-link.html">2nd Link</a></li>
	<li id="third-link"><a href="third-link.html">3rd Link</a></li>
	<li id="fourth-link"><a href="fourth-link.html">4th Link</a></li>
</ul>
```

If you are working on the `second-link.html` site and want the corresponding menu item to have a css-class `active` simply put following code into the head of your page in `./src`:

```html
<!-- [active-menu-entry: second-link] -->
```

The value `none` will ignore the menu settings and nothing will be highlighted. Or simply don't use this line in your site.

### Assets

LSTE has no further configuration for the assets folder. It simply copies all its content to the destination so you can use anything in there you want.

### Other functions

There are built-in functions which display different kind of information

* `<!-- [func: title] -->`: Renders the title given by the page in `./src` with the tag `<!-- [title: My LSTE Project] -->` or loads it from the config file
* `<!-- [func: meta-keywords] -->`: Renders the meta keywords given by the page in `./src` with the tag `<!-- [meta-keywords: My very first LSTE project] -->` or loads it from the config file
* * `<!-- [func: meta-description] -->`: Renders the meta description given by the page in `./src` with the tag `<!-- [meta-description: My very first LSTE project] -->` or loads it from the config file
* `<!-- [func: timestamp] -->`: Renders a unix timestamp when the page was generated by LSTE

## The `--watch` argument

You can start LSTE with the argument `--watch` (or `-w`). It automatically checks for modifications in the folders `./src`, `./parts`, `./assets` and the `lste.conf` file. If anything changes there or a file is added, the website will be generated automatically.

```bash
./lste.py -p ./example -d ./dist --watch
```

Starts the watcher for the `./example` project.

## Contributing

### Contributor Code of Conduct

Please note that this project is adapting the [Contributor Code of Conduct](https://learn.wordpress.org/online-workshops/code-of-conduct/) from WordPress.org even though this is not a WordPress project. By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.

### Basic Workflow

* Grab an issue
* Fork the project
* Add a branch with the number of your issue
* Develop your stuff
* Commit to your forked project
* Send a pull request to the main branch with all the details

Please make sure that you have [set up your user name and email address](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-First-Time-Git-Setup) for use with Git. Strings such as `silly nick name <root@localhost>` look really stupid in the commit history of a project.

Due to time constraints, you may not always get a quick response. Please do not take delays personally and feel free to remind.

### Workflow Process

* Every new issue gets the label 'Request'
* Every commit must be linked to the issue with following pattern: `#${ISSUENUMBER} - ${MESSAGE}`
* Every PR only contains one commit and one reference to a specific issue
